---
title: FEN Chess Notation and Battlesnake
date: 2023-07-09
slug: chess-fen
---

TIL about FEN Chess notation, which is a text represenation of the state of a chess board.
[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Forsyth%E2%80%93Edwards_Notation)

Here is the starting position of a chess board in FEN

```fen
rnbqkbnr/pppppppp/8/8/8/8/PPPPPPPP/RNBQKBNR w KQkq - 0 1
```

The first of the 6 sections seperated by spaces is the board.
The letters represent the pieces: uppercase is white and lowercase is black.
The numbers represent empty squares in a row.
Each `/` is the end of a row of the board.

The sections after board state say which colors turn it is.
And then rules for castling, en passant and other rules that I don't understand as non-chess player.

---

As a [Battlesnake](https://play.battlesnake.com) developer, we get a lot of chess cross-over which is where FEN was introduced to me.
In the Battlesnake Discord someone asked if there was a FEN-like representation for Battlesnake.
The concensus was there isn't today.
But I'm not sure I like that answer!
Fen seems really cool, and it would be cool if Battlesnake had a more concise way to express board states than the full JSON payloads.

I'm going to start thinking about what this format would look like!
If you have thoughts on how it should work let me know!
It will be more difficult for battlesnake but I think it will be a fun problem to noodle on.

This was inspiried by EnderInvader's battlesnake viewer Obsidian plugin: <https://github.com/EnderInvader/battlesnake-viewer>
It's a fork of a chess viewer that visualizes FEN notation.
EnferInvader's version takes the full JSON and renders a version of the Battlesnake Board!
Its really cool and if you use Obsidian you should definitely check it out.
