---
title: "Mastering Browser Tests with Cypress: A Hands-on Programming Tutorial in Rust | Live Stream"
date: 2022-11-15
s3_url: "raw_recordings/2022/2022-11-15 20-00-21.mkv"
youtube_url: "https://youtu.be/octCyWo6_sg"
project: peek
---

Discover how to conquer browser testing with Cypress in this detailed, live-streamed coding session. Join Corey, a.k.a. coreyja, as he ventures into the world of Rust programming and demonstrates real-life problem-solving strategies in code debugging and testing.

Recorded on November 15, 2022, this video tracks Corey's progress in fixing browser tests using Cypress - a popular tool for automated testing of web applications. Watch as he meticulously searches for specific lines of code and implements solutions to ensure all tests pass. Corey adds a sign-out button, uses Cypress helper functions, verifies changes in the code, and much more.

In this session, Corey also works on the unique project named "Peek," refining the sign-in, sign-up, and home pages along the way. He reveals his intricate process of managing code structure, handling design differences, minifying logo files, and much more. There's a wealth of knowledge to gain as Corey delves into details like form inputs, styling elements, padding, margins, and border styles.

But that's not all! Corey shares his exciting plans to create a series about building a web framework in Rust and discusses vital deployment processes. Learn about his strategy for pulling in data from external APIs and his dedication to continuous learning and improvement.

Finally, engage with the growing community by joining Corey's Discord, following him on various platforms, and becoming a part of an educational journey. So buckle up and get ready for a deep dive into the captivating world of Cypress and Rust!
