---
title: "Exploring Rust: Parsing HTTP Messages and Understanding Server-Side Coding"
date: 2022-10-31
s3_url: "raw_recordings/2022/2022-10-31 20-49-19.mkv"
---

Join coreyja as he dives deep into Rust programming, exploring the understanding of HTTP messages, and server-side development. Recorded on 31st October 2022, this livestream goes into the nitty-gritty of how to parse and format HTTP messages in Rust.

Get a clear understanding as Corey meticulously sets up a project, adds a Cargo workspace and creates a .gitignore file. Follow along as he unravels the structure of an HTTP message, and breaks down its components including the request line, headers, and body. Don't worry if you're new, Corey makes sure to explain Rust concepts such as structs, traits, macros, and string references along the way.

This livestream is more than theoretical discussions as Corey gets hands-on by implementing a function called "parse HTTP message". Watch and learn as he uses the "debug" trait and the "derive" macro for debugging. It gets even more interesting as he encounters an error and figures the way out. Even if you're not familiar with Rust, Corey's easy to understand explanations and tips will make it effortless for you to grasp.

This lab session also touches on test-driven development with Corey discussing the concept of unit tests for the code. The closing remarks hint towards future development steps and areas of further exploration, making this livestream a must-watch for aspiring Rust developers and enthusiasts of server-side coding.
