---
title: "Mastering Distributed Systems in Rust: Fly.io Gossip Glomers Challenge - Live Coding"
date: 2023-03-22
s3_url: "raw_recordings/2023/2023-03-22 19-02-04.mkv"
---

Description:

Dive in with Corey as he tackles the Fly.io gossip glomers challenge using Rust in this streamed coding session recorded on 2023-03-22. Watch him solve complex distributed systems challenges on the Mailstrom platform, optimize message sending between nodes, and improve his program's efficiency.

From the code structure walk-through, including the gossip manager and request handler, to considering reading papers on gossip protocols for insights, Corey shows his knack for problem-solving. Watch him tackle the efficient broadcast challenge, aiming to reduce the number of messages sent per operation. Be there as playback unfolds: find out what modifications he made to the code, the issues he faces, and the eventual success he achieves in improving the messages per operation count.

In the second part of the stream, join Corey as he begins a new challenge: the "Grow Only Counter." Learn how he plans to implement a stateless grow only counter that relies on a sequentially consistent key-value store provided by Maelstrom.

Experience real-time debugging, problem-solving, and hands-on demonstration of using Rust in distributed systems. Whether you're a beginner or an experienced developer, this video will provide you with practical insights and techniques to improve your code efficiency. Enjoy the ride - from Corey tackling the efficiency challenge for the gossip protocol to gearing up for the next challenge!
